## 8.13. Advanced usage

### 8.13.1. Using the generated toolchain outside Buildroot

You may want to compile, for your target, your own programs or other software that are not packaged in Buildroot. In order to do this you can use the toolchain that was generated by Buildroot.

The toolchain generated by Buildroot is located by default in `output/host/`. The simplest way to use it is to add `output/host/bin/` to your PATH environment variable and then to use `ARCH-linux-gcc`, `ARCH-linux-objdump`, `ARCH-linux-ld`, etc.

Alternatively, Buildroot can also export the toolchain and the development files of all selected packages, as an SDK, by running the command `make sdk`. This generates a tarball of the content of the host directory `output/host/`, named `<TARGET-TUPLE>_sdk-buildroot.tar.gz` (which can be overridden by setting the environment variable `BR2_SDK_PREFIX`) and located in the output directory `output/images/`.

This tarball can then be distributed to application developers, when they want to develop their applications that are not (yet) packaged as a Buildroot package.

Upon extracting the SDK tarball, the user must run the script `relocate-sdk.sh` (located at the top directory of the SDK), to make sure all paths are updated with the new location.

Alternatively, if you just want to prepare the SDK without generating the tarball (e.g. because you will just be moving the `host` directory, or will be generating the tarball on your own), Buildroot also allows you to just prepare the SDK with `make prepare-sdk` without actually generating a tarball.

For your convenience, by selecting the option `BR2_PACKAGE_HOST_ENVIRONMENT_SETUP`, you can get a `environment-setup` script installed in `output/host/` and therefore in your SDK. This script can be sourced with `. your/sdk/path/environment-setup` to export a number of environment variables that will help cross-compile your projects using the Buildroot SDK: the `PATH` will contain the SDK binaries, standard *autotools* variables will be defined with the appropriate values, and `CONFIGURE_FLAGS` will contain basic `./configure` options to cross-compile *autotools* projects. It also provides some useful commands. Note however that once this script is sourced, the environment is setup only for cross-compilation, and no longer for native compilation.

### 8.13.2. Using `gdb` in Buildroot

Buildroot allows to do cross-debugging, where the debugger runs on the build machine and communicates with `gdbserver` on the target to control the execution of the program.

To achieve this:

- If you are using an *internal toolchain* (built by Buildroot), you must enable `BR2_PACKAGE_HOST_GDB`, `BR2_PACKAGE_GDB` and `BR2_PACKAGE_GDB_SERVER`. This ensures that both the cross gdb and gdbserver get built, and that gdbserver gets installed to your target.
- If you are using an *external toolchain*, you should enable `BR2_TOOLCHAIN_EXTERNAL_GDB_SERVER_COPY`, which will copy the gdbserver included with the external toolchain to the target. If your external toolchain does not have a cross gdb or gdbserver, it is also possible to let Buildroot build them, by enabling the same options as for the *internal toolchain backend*.

Now, to start debugging a program called `foo`, you should run on the target:

```
gdbserver :2345 foo
```

This will cause `gdbserver` to listen on TCP port 2345 for a connection from the cross gdb.

Then, on the host, you should start the cross gdb using the following command line:

```
<buildroot>/output/host/bin/<tuple>-gdb -ix <buildroot>/output/staging/usr/share/buildroot/gdbinit foo
```

Of course, `foo` must be available in the current directory, built with debugging symbols. Typically you start this command from the directory where `foo` is built (and not from `output/target/` as the binaries in that directory are stripped).

The `<buildroot>/output/staging/usr/share/buildroot/gdbinit` file will tell the cross gdb where to find the libraries of the target.

Finally, to connect to the target from the cross gdb:

```
(gdb) target remote <target ip address>:2345
```

### 8.13.3. Using `ccache` in Buildroot

[ccache](http://ccache.samba.org/) is a compiler cache. It stores the object files resulting from each compilation process, and is able to skip future compilation of the same source file (with same compiler and same arguments) by using the pre-existing object files. When doing almost identical builds from scratch a number of times, it can nicely speed up the build process.

`ccache` support is integrated in Buildroot. You just have to enable `Enable compiler cache` in `Build options`. This will automatically build `ccache` and use it for every host and target compilation.

The cache is located in the directory defined by the `BR2_CCACHE_DIR` configuration option, which defaults to `$HOME/.buildroot-ccache`. This default location is outside of Buildroot output directory so that it can be shared by separate Buildroot builds. If you want to get rid of the cache, simply remove this directory.

You can get statistics on the cache (its size, number of hits, misses, etc.) by running `make ccache-stats`.

The make target `ccache-options` and the `CCACHE_OPTIONS` variable provide more generic access to the ccache. For example

```
# set cache limit size
make CCACHE_OPTIONS="--max-size=5G" ccache-options

# zero statistics counters
make CCACHE_OPTIONS="--zero-stats" ccache-options
```

`ccache` makes a hash of the source files and of the compiler options. If a compiler option is different, the cached object file will not be used. Many compiler options, however, contain an absolute path to the staging directory. Because of this, building in a different output directory would lead to many cache misses.

To avoid this issue, buildroot has the `Use relative paths` option (`BR2_CCACHE_USE_BASEDIR`). This will rewrite all absolute paths that point inside the output directory into relative paths. Thus, changing the output directory no longer leads to cache misses.

A disadvantage of the relative paths is that they also end up to be relative paths in the object file. Therefore, for example, the debugger will no longer find the file, unless you cd to the output directory first.

See [the ccache manual’s section on "Compiling in different directories"](https://ccache.samba.org/manual.html#_compiling_in_different_directories) for more details about this rewriting of absolute paths.

When `ccache` is enabled in Buildroot using the `BR2_CCACHE=y` option:

- `ccache` is used during the Buildroot build itself
- `ccache` is not used when building outside of Buildroot, for example when directly calling the cross-compiler or using the SDK

One can override this behavior using the `BR2_USE_CCACHE` environment variable: when set to `1`, usage of ccache is enabled (default during the Buildroot build), when unset or set to a value different from `1`, usage of ccache is disabled.

